CON-568 | Add API documentation for Export API (#508)
MewsSystems/gitbook-connector-api: use-cases/data-export.md

# Data export

The _Data export_ feature of the **Mews Connector API** provides a streamlined method for retrieving bulk data. This feature is designed for users who require access to a substantial amount of data, such as [Order items](../operations/orderitems.md#order-item), without the hassle of making multiple paginated requests subject to timeouts and other constraints.

### User scenarios

- You are a Mews partner onboarding a new property and you need an initial data sync
- You are a Mews Multi-Property user and want to retrieve data shared across multiple properties
- You are using a newly added API operation and are loading data for the first time
- You wish to perform a cross-data sanity check

### User benefits

- Streamlined bulk data export process
- Reduced API request complexity and potential timeouts
- Improved scalability for large-scale data retrieval
- Faster property onboarding process
- Potential for future expansion to support further data entities

> ### Restricted!
>

> > This feature is currently under beta test and is subject to change. If you would like to take advantage of the feature, contact us via [partnersuccess@mews.com](mailto://partnersuccess@mews.com).

Reviewer: nitpick: mailto doesn't use double slash:

```suggestion
> This feature is currently under beta test and is subject to change. If you would like to take advantage of the feature, contact us via [partnersuccess@mews.com](mailto:partnersuccess@mews.com).
```

## Initiate the export

> To initiate a bulk data export, use the [Add export](../operations/exports.md#add-export) operation, specifying the data _Entity type_, e.g. `OrderItem`.

Reviewer: suggestion(non-blocking): I think we should mention here that the Add export operation returns an export ID which needs to be used in the next step.

Author: yes ok

| <div style="width:350px">'How to' use case</div> | API Operations |
| :-- | :-- |
| How to create a new bulk data export | [Add export](../operations/exports.md#add-export) |

## Check export status

> To monitor the progress of the export and retrieve the exported data, use the [Get all exports](../operations/exports.md#get-all-exports) operation. This operation provides a list of all ongoing and completed exports, including their status.

Reviewer: suggestion(non-blocking): The operation provides only exports for which the export ID is provided, so I think the use of export ID should be emphasized here.
Additionally I think we could mention periodic polling here? Something along the lines of: "You can repeatedly check the status of export while its status is `Pending` or `Processing`." – Perhaps with some suggestion that it's recommended to check every 5 minutes or so?

| <div style="width:350px">'How to' use case</div> | API Operations |
| :-- | :-- |
| How to check on data export progress | [Get all exports](../operations/exports.md#get-all-exports) |

## Download exported data

> Once the export status changes to `Success`, you can download the exported data from the provided [file URLs](../operations/exports.md#exported-file). For example:

Reviewer: suggestion: We should mention (here? or in FAQ?) that files are available only for limited duration (currently 1 week) which is specified in `ExportsUtc`.

                    "Url": "https://example.com/exports/3fa85f64-5717-4562-b3fd-2c963f66afa6-2.jsonl?example=signature",
                    "SizeInBytes": 1398362
                }
            ]
        },
    ]
}
```
> **Multiple files:** Note the data export may consist of multiple files.

## Frequently Asked Questions

### Will the supported entity types be extended in future?

Depending on user demand, the **Mews Connector API** may be expanded to support additional data entities for bulk export.

### How often should I check for updates?

We do not provide specific guidance on this because the export duration can vary enormously. The current mechanism is considered a trial which may be enhanced in future. For example, we may move to a model whereby a webhook event is generated when the export is ready.

### Can I export data from multiple enterprises in one request?

Yes, you can use a [Portfolio Access Token](../guidelines/multi-property.md) to request data from multiple enterprises. Doing so will generate an export of data for all enterprises within scope of the Access Token.

### What happens if I request a data export when there is already an export pending?

> The [Add export](../operations/exports.md#add-export) operation returns a 400 HTTP error code in that case.

Reviewer: question: Should this limitation be mentioned in the Initiate the export section above?

Author: yes ok, agreed.

> ### Restricted!
>
> This feature is currently under beta test and is subject to change. If you would like to take advantage of the feature, contact us via [partnersuccess@mews.com](mailto:partnersuccess@mews.com).

## Initiate the export

To initiate a bulk data export, use the [Add export](../operations/exports.md#add-export) operation, specifying the data _Entity type_, e.g. `OrderItem`. The operation returns an [Export](../operations/exports.md#export) object containing the Export `Id` to use in the next step. If there is already an export pending, the operation returns a 400 HTTP error code.

| <div style="width:350px">'How to' use case</div> | API Operations |
| :-- | :-- |
| How to create a new bulk data export | [Add export](../operations/exports.md#add-export) |

## Check export status

> To monitor the progress of the export and retrieve the exported data, use the [Get all exports](../operations/exports.md#get-all-exports) operation. This operation returns details of exports for the `Id`s you specify, including their status. You can repeatedly check the status of an export while its status is `Pending` or `Processing`, for example every 5 minutes.

Reviewer: suggestion(non-blocking): Perhaps this will create more confusion, but the retrieved `Id` is passed in `ExportIds` array. 😬 

```suggestion
To monitor the progress of the export and retrieve the exported data, use the [Get all exports](../operations/exports.md#get-all-exports) operation. This operation returns details of exports for the `ExportIds` you specify, including their status. You can repeatedly check the status of an export while its status is `Pending` or `Processing`, for example every 5 minutes.
```
